# Video Analysis: Claude Skills: Glimpse of Continual Learning?

**Author:** Prompt Engineering
**Duration:** 828 seconds (13 minutes)
**Views:** 14523
**Analyzed:** 2025-10-19 15:40:21

## Full Transcript

 Okay, so in topic recently released, skills for cloud. And according to some people, this is probably bigger and better than MCP servers. Well, we'll have to see that. However, I think if you are trying to build repeatable workflows where the agent has to follow certain SOPs, then skills is definitely something you want to look at. So in this video, we're going to try to understand what skills are, how they're different from MCPs, subagents, and slash commands, and when you should start thinking about using them. So we're going to try to address the last question first. So according to in topic, we need to think of them as custom onboarding material that let you package expertise, making cloud a specialist on what matters to you. So think of this is very early patterns of continual learning without modifying the model weight. Now, this might sound like a big claim. I will try to explain that later in the video. But in general, skills are a set of instructions along with set of resources that the agent can use to execute very pitiful pattern that you want the agent to follow. And this is going to be defined in terms of folder with skill.md and set of other files which the agent can refer to if it tries to solve a specific set of problems. Anthropic actually use this internally. So one example that we have seen is the file creation capability of Anthropic. It basically is a skill that is defined using a skill.md file and then a bunch of Python files or Python set of instructions that the agent executes if it wants to create a new file or modify an existing file. Now, you might be thinking we can potentially do all of these things using sub agents and MCPs and you are right. But there is a huge difference and it mostly comes down to how the context window is managed. So if I were to go and open a new instance of Claw, this is a completely fresh instance. Now, if I check here, I have three MCPs that are currently connected. If we look at the usable context that is left right now, we're going to see that currently just the MCP servers are using about 16% of the context that is almost 32,000 tokens. The way this happens is that whenever you connect an MCP server, it is going to load all of the different tools that are available to that MCP server and then the agent has to figure out which tool to use at what step. Now, there is another way we can create agents. So agent agent is going to be specialized. If you look at there are some built-in agents, the problem with agents is that their context is very different from or completely isolated from the main agent. So when we call a sub agent, the sub agent is going to execute a set of instructions, do set of operations, but the output is now is going to only contain the final outcome or the results. It doesn't actually pass on the rest of the context or the operations that it did to the main agent. Now, Clawed skills are very different and it all comes down to this skill.md file, which basically contains the system prompt or what exactly this skill is supposed to do. Along with some tools that are going to be available to this specific skill. So, for example, here's a custom skill. This is created by an entropic team and it just contains a bunch of Python functions which are wrapped in a class which does multiple different things. Now, if you look at the skill.md file for this, it basically describes what the skills is. So this provides comprehensive financial ratio analysis for evaluating company performance, profitability, liquidity and evaluation. Here are different capabilities, how to use it, what are the input format, output format, and a couple of usage examples. Now, you might be thinking it looks way similar to an MCP server if you think of these as tools, right? But there is a huge difference. The first thing is skill are specialized. So these are for irrepeatable workflows and you actually tell the agent how to use these tools and in which order. And the second is how exactly the context is managed when we're using skills. So for this, we're going to quickly look at the structure of skill.md. The first part is a very quick description of what exactly the skill does. Then there's another section which basically goes into a little bit more details, how to use different files and what capabilities are available. And this is the most important part to keep in mind when you are trying to build skills and how to think about the usage. So the first part, which is basically just the metadata, is going to contain about 150 tokens. Then the second part which tells the agent what actual tools are available are going to contain probably less than 5,000 tokens. And then the next part is the actual files or resources, which could potentially contain unlimited tokens, right? Now with that in mind here is exactly what happens when the agent decides to use a skill. If you are using a number of different skills, it will initially have only the description or metadata. So for every we are looking at around 100 to 150 tokens only, not the full 32,000 tokens with all the tool descriptions. When the user request comes in, it will just pick one or multiple skills based on the similarity with what the user is asking for. Now if it finds out that skill is not relevant, the agent can simply discard it and just look at another skill. And then it loads the body and start using those tools. Now according to the topic, this progressive disclosure is the core design principle that makes agent skills flexible and scalable, like a well organized manual that starts with a table of content, then specific chapters and finally a detailed appendix. Skills let Claude load information only as needed. This is I think a huge benefit of skills when it comes to context management. They actually released a whole engineering blog post about equipping agents for the real world with agent skills, which is definitely worth reading. Now a skill can also include sub agents and even MCP servers. But I hope this gives you a very good idea of how skills are different than MCP servers, sub agents, slash commands. Now I don't think we talked about slash commands in this video, but these are essentially custom workflows that you can trigger manually. Claude comes with some of these slash commands that you probably have seen in action. So what exactly is inside the skill? In the markdown, you can have references to other markdowns. This is the skill.md file, which will enable the model or the agent to perform different actions. And this also brings me to that continual learning concept that I mentioned in the beginning of the video. But before that, let's have a quick look at this example markdown file. Now depending on the action that the agent wants to perform, there are different markdown or instruction files. And they are kind of hierarchical instruction. So from this instruction file or MD file, there will be further instructions on how to use a set of different available tools. Now this is I think very beautiful because this lets you use a single skill to define multiple different workflows that the agent can execute on user behalf. And it's going to be extremely helpful for the agent to learn new SOPs or standard operating procedures that the companies or individual developers wants to teach the agent. So the idea would be to expand the capabilities of your agent by just bringing in new skills that it hasn't seen before. But since you have very well defined instructions on how to use these different tools is supposed to accomplish, the agent can run on the fly. Now this is a crude example of continual learning where you don't have to retrain your model anymore, but you are able to provide new skills or capabilities. Now that being said, these are very early days. We don't know if this is the pattern that everybody is going to adopt or not, but Anthropic has been releasing some very interesting tools and techniques lately. And I think you have to appreciate some of the engineering elegance of these solutions and tools. Now you might be thinking well you can do all of this with custom instructions and projects both within cloud as well as chat GPT and you're right, but there is a huge difference. The first thing is that the documents that you provide to a project that becomes just the knowledge base. Right here it's composable. So cloud automatically identifies which skills are needed and coordinates their use. But I think here's the best part that you can use the same skill that you built once across cloud apps, cloud code and APIs. And I think you would be able to potentially also share the skills that you create, which I think is going to be extremely helpful. So skills are already available on the API, cloud code and cloud web interface. So if you go to or actually the desktop app as well, if you go to capabilities, you're going to see these are skills created by Anthropic. You can create your own skills as well. I'll show you the structure. There are a number of different skills. As of, for example, there's a canvas design, brand guidelines. So this is a really good example of custom skills. If you want to create some brand guidelines, you can actually create a skill around that. There is also a pretty neat skill creator. So cloud can actually use this to create your skills for you automatically. There's also an MCP builder. And I believe there are going to be a number of different skills coming up. Okay, so I'm going to go to cloud and I'm going to ask you to create a skill. Can you create a skill that is going to enable the agent to do thorough code reviews? Okay. Okay. So we're going to just send this and let's see what it does. All right. So it's right now using the skill creator. That's basically the documentation. And you can see that it kind of goes through multiple different levels. So initially it looks at the top level, then it looks at the tools that are available and so on and so forth. Now right now it's creating that skill.md file for us. Basically has different workflows that the agent needs to follow if it's going to perform a code review. So this is extremely helpful because sometimes companies have their own internal templates that they want the developers to follow. There might be specific guidelines. Right. So if you just create a sub agent that is going to do code review that might not be as customizable as a skill that you can provide very specific instructions to. And instruction in this case could be just simple guidelines documentation. Now once that is done, you can actually just copy with that folder that cloud is going to create for us into cloud code and you will be able to use this new skill. So do let me know if you are interested in that. They have very interesting developer documentation around how to think about building skills. What exactly is supposed to be in there. So we need to have that high level skill dot md file. Then references examples of the different workflows that you want to build and then the actual tool implementation. So if you're interested in learning more about this, let me know I'll probably create a more detailed video on this topic. Now the future is going to tell whether this is going to be adopted by the industry or not, but I think there is a potential. Although we are also seeing kind of a divide. So for example, if you look at something like agent start md, almost every other coding agent is adopting it except cloud code. But these are very early days and we're going to see some standards coming up. Do let me know what your thoughts are, but I hope this video was useful in understanding what these new skills are. Anyways, I hope you found this video useful. Thanks for watching and as always see you in the next one.